So now let's talk about DependsOn.
And DependsOn is a way for you to specify a specific order
for the creation of resources.
So here in this template, we have an EC2 instance
and we have an RDS database instance.
And if I did not have this DependsOn right here,
they would both be created at the same time.
But because I'm adding DependsOn DBInstance, it turns out
that my DBInstance is going to be created first,
and only if it gets successfully created,
then my EC2 instance will be created on its own.
And so DependsOn allow you to specify some hints
at the order of which resources should be created at.
Now we've seen that CloudFormation also makes judgment calls
about in which order to generate resources.
And it turns out that if,
from your EC2 instance you're using, for example,
a reference intrinsic function
to a security group, then CloudFormation knows
that your EC2 instance depends on your security group
and therefore will create it only after your security groups
are created.
But if you're not using a ref function
or a get attribute function to link two things together,
then you can link them together
with the DependsOn attributes,
and that works with any resource.
So let's have a look at it right now.
So here is the file, 5-dependson.yml,
and we have two resources in it,
we have an EC2 instance of Type EC2 Instance,
the properties is a specific ImageId,
and an InstanceType of t2.micro,
and MyBucket, in MyBucket is an S3 bucket,
but we made it depend on MyEC2Instance,
and I need to rename things correctly,
otherwise it's not going to work.
Here we go.
And so what it means is that,
well, the S3 bucket will not be created
up until the EC2 instance is created.
If I did not have this line, if this slide was not existing,
then they would both be created at the same time
because there is no link between my EC2 instance
and my S3 buckets.
So let's observe this real quick.
We're going to upload the file, being this one, next.
Then we'll, DependsOn,
and submit.
And so as we can see, let's look at the events
to really make sure this is working as expected.
So as you can see,
MyEC2Instance is the only thing being created
and even if I refresh,
well, there is no S3 bucket being created right now.
And only when the EC2 instance is going to switch
to create completed will my S3 bucket be created.
Again, this is due to the DependsOn attribute,
so now MyEC2Instance is in create complete,
and as soon as it was done, as you can see,
MyBucket is being created and we're good to go.
So now my S3 bucket is being created.
And this works the exact same way on the deletes,
so when you have a DependsOn attribute,
let's go through the delete now,
if I delete things,
it's first going to delete the S3 bucket
and then when the delete of the S3 bucket is completed,
will it actually terminate the EC2 instance.
And that shows you the power of DependsOn.
So I hope you liked it,
and I will see you in the next lecture.